# Arduino IR Remote Code Documentation
## Introduction
This document provides a detailed explanation of the code for an Arduino board to receive infrared (IR) signals from a remote control and control the state of a WiFi router using the received signal. The code is written in the Arduino programming language and utilizes the IRremote library to interface with the IR receiver module.

## Code Explanation
The code starts by including the IRremote library using the `#include <IRremote.h>` directive.

The `IR_RECEIVE_PIN` constant is defined to represent the pin on which the IR receiver module is connected. In this code, it is connected to pin 2 of the Arduino board.

The `setup()` function is called once when the Arduino board is powered on. It initializes the serial communication at a baud rate of 9600 using the `Serial.begin(9600)` function. It also initializes the IR receiver module using the `IrReceiver.begin(IR_RECEIVE_PIN)` function. Two output pins are defined using the `pinMode()` function, one for the WiFi router and the other one is a LED to indicate the status of the WiFi router. Both pins are set to HIGH initially using the `digitalWrite()` function.

The `loop()` function is called repeatedly while the board is powered on. It starts by checking if an IR signal has been received using the `IrReceiver.decode()` function. If a signal is received, the code checks the `IrReceiver.decodedIRData.command` value to determine which button was pressed on the remote control.

If the `IrReceiver.decodedIRData.command` value is equal to 2, it means that the second button on the remote control was pressed. This code will turn off the WiFi router by setting the output pin connected to the router to HIGH using the `digitalWrite(13, HIGH)` function. It also prints a message to the serial monitor indicating that the WiFi router is turned off using the `Serial.println("WIFI Router is OFF")` function.

If the `IrReceiver.decodedIRData.command` value is equal to 1, it means that the first button on the remote control was pressed. This code will turn on the WiFi router by setting the output pin connected to the router to LOW using the `digitalWrite(13, LOW)` function. It also prints a message to the serial monitor indicating that the WiFi router is turned on using the `Serial.println("WIFI Router is ON")` function.

Finally, a delay of 500 milliseconds is added using the delay(500) function to prevent multiple commands from being executed due to the continuous loop. The `IrReceiver.resume()` function is called to reset the IR receiver module to receive the next signal.

## Conclusion
This code demonstrates how to use an Arduino board to receive IR signals from a remote control and control the state of a WiFi router using the received signal. It uses the IRremote library to interface with the IR receiver module and the digitalWrite() function to control the state of the output pins. The Serial.println() function is used to print messages to the serial monitor for debugging purposes.

> *Documentation generated by ChatGPT, an AI language model by OpenAI*